# prominv

## Overview
prominv is an [Ansible Dynamic Inventory](https://docs.ansible.com/projects/ansible/latest/inventory_guide/intro_dynamic_inventory.html) that uses the [Prometheus API](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/) as a data source.  The inventory use the labels associated with a given metric to construct variables that can be accessed from Ansible.  It also creates [Child Groups](https://docs.ansible.com/projects/ansible/latest/inventory_guide/intro_inventory.html#grouping-groups-parent-child-group-relationships) within the Inventory to group hosts according to label names and content.

## Getting Started
Start by cloning this Git repository.  Once you have the code, it can be installed using **go build**.  Providing no issues are encountered, you should now be able to run *prominv*.  Without any configuration, it won't do anything beyond completeing without error if the build is valid.  Read on to create a valid configuration.

## Configuration
The prominv program will try to guess at required configuration options that have not been explicitly set.  It's probably best however to construct a fully-populated configuration file.  The configuration file can then be specified using the *prominv -config <location>* flag.  Below is a complete example of a configuration file (in yaml format).

    ---
    prometheus_url: http://prometheus.mydomain.org:9090
    promql_query: up{job="node"}
    labels:
      group_by:
        - env
        - site

The options in the above example are described below:-
* prometheus_url: The URL of the Prometheus instance to be queried.
* promql_query: The query, in PromQL format, used to generate the desired inventory. A common example would be **up{job="node"}**.
* labels: A category of things relating to Prometheus labels.
  * group_by: A list of labels returned by the promql_query that should be used to generate inventory Child Groups.

## Child Groups
As per the example above, child groups can be generated by specifying a list of labels in the **group_by** section.  For each instance returned by the **promql_query**, the instance name will be added to a corresponding child group if it contains a matching label.  For example, given the following metric:

    up{app="web", env="dev", instance="webserver01", job="node"}

Using the following configuration:

    group_by:
      - env
      - site

The metric contains an **env** label but not a **site** label.  The instance name **webserver01** would be added to a child group of: **env_dev**.

### Bool Child Groups
In addition to the Child Groups described above, there are also **bool0** & **bool1** groups that will be populated if the returned metric values all meet the criteria of 0 or 1.  An example of this would be the default query **up{job="node"}**.  In this instance, the up/reachable nodes will be put into the **bool1** group and the unreachable/down nodes into the **bool0** group.  These Child Groups will only exist if all of the returned metrics meet the 0 or 1 requirement.

## Command-line Flags
The configuration file described above can be overridden using command-line flags.
* **-config** The path to a configuration file.  The default is: /etc/prominv/config.yml.
* **-query** This overrides the **promql_query** config option. You might need to escape reeserved characters when specifying this flag.
* **-url** The URL to query.  This overrides the **prometheus_url** config option.
* **-list** This is a special flag that is required by Ansible when using a Dynamic Inventory. Without it, nothing happens.